On Intelligence, Learning, and Guessing
=======================================

The Question
------------
Super-intelligence, form? System super-intelligent, mean? How answer?

Define intelligence.

Define learning.


Learning and Improving
----------------------
Learning's definition is unclear. Learning as improving is proposed. Learning and improving correlate. Improving meaning also unclear. System beginning does bad, system end does good. Bad to good is learning. Bad thinking, bad action, bad perception, bad guessing, good thinking, good action, good perception, good guessing. Learning and improving both bad to good. Still not same. Learning is perception and action. Improving is perception and action. Still not same.


Reason as Extrapolation
-----------------------
Reason reaches conclusions. Conclusions need to be reached because not everything can known or confirmed. A conclusion is an extrapolation. An extrapolation is a guess. A guess is a proposal. A proposal is an offering of potential. An offering of potential is something that can't be confirmed true or false ahead of time. Not everything can be known ahead of time, because the future hasn't happened yet. There is always a future, so not everything can be known then. But there is also always a past. The past is shared. Having a shared past means things happened one way underlyingly. Things happening one way underlyingly infers other things happening one way underlyingly will happen. Things happening one way underlyingly inferring other things happening one way underlyingly is extrapolation. Extrapolation also known as reason. Reason also known as guess. Guess mean inferring what true or not from what true or not.


The Limits of Certainty
-----------------------
Knowing everything impossible. Knowing something impossible? Certainty about everything impossible. Certainty about anything, impossible?

No certainty about anything, impossible. Assumption possible. Guess possible. Proposal possible. Thinking possible. Reason possible. Extrapolation possible. Change possible. Truth possible. False possible. Uncertainty possible. Direction possible. Inconsistency possible.


Believing and Assuming
----------------------
Believing one thing requires believing others.

Assuming one thing requires assuming others.

Assuming one thing necessitates assuming others.

Whether you assume something to be true or false affects whether you believe other things to be true or false, and whether you believe something to be true or false affects whether you assume something to be true or false.

Believing is therefore assuming, and assuming is believing.


Certainty as Effect
-------------------
Therefore it is important to consider how what you believe affects what you assume. And how what you assume affects what you believe.

This effect can be represented by what we call certainty.

False certainty exists, and occurs when we don't consider what we assume in order to believe, or what we believe in order to assume.

Anti-certainty in the domain of reason is also known as logical inconsistency. Certainty and logical inconsistency are therefore inversely correlated.


Logical Inconsistency
---------------------
But what is logical inconsistency? If I were to take a claim, and assume it to be true or false, there would be implications for each case. Implications in this case would mean possible problems and possible solutions. If you were to take a claim, assume it to be true or false, would what you then have to believe in be the opposite of what you may already be believing as a result of assuming something else?


Classifying Claims
------------------
Each claim can therefore be represented as either true, false, likely, unlikely, or unknown. The more things you know about what you have to assume to believe a claim, the more certain you can be about what classification makes sense for the claim. If most of what you have to assume to believe a claim can be represented as being true, then the claim can lean towards certain truth, whereas if most of what you have to assume to believe a claim can be represented as being false, then the claim can lean towards certain false. If what you have to assume is a mix of truth and false, likely and unlikely, or currently unknown, then whether that claim is true or false is harder to know with certainty, but at least you are now more certain that you know how certain you can be that your classification is correct.


Overlap and Disagreement
------------------------
Overlap can be defined as how many claims you are making where the implications don't match each other. While sitting down with someone, I could say: "we are sitting down". Claim could be true or false, like any other claim, and can be disagreed with, like any other claim.

The manner in which disagreement is made can be categorized into several distinct categories. Disagreement can be made with the frame: We aren't sitting down we are talking. With the subject: You may be sitting down but I am not. And so on. The important thing here not the specific examples, but that disagreement can also be thought of as a claim, because the disagreement could be either true or false. And if the disagreement can be thought of as true or false, then the disagreement can be thought of as a claim, that can therefore be disagreed with. So therefore nearly anything can be disagreed with, as long as it is something that can be evaluated as to whether it is true or false.


Agree and Disagree
------------------
But something is missing here. Nearly everything can also be not disagreed with, aka it can be agreed with. So now we have two ways of being able to handle any claim. We could agree, thereby assuming it is correct, right, true, or we could disagree, thereby assuming it is incorrect, false, wrong. Agreeing can also be thought of as the non-contrarian position, while disagreeing can be thought of as the contrarian position.

With just these two simple principles, assuming wrong and assuming right, we can massively increase the sophistication, depth, and breadth with which we can evaluate the truth of a claim, which we can now treat as a discrete entity.


Nothing is Obvious
------------------
Even if it may seem obvious that a claim is true, someone, somewhere, in some context, and some perspective, might be able to disagree that the claim is true, and we should not disagree with where they are coming from, because they always will have at least part of their claim be right, if they are operating under good guessing principles, aka logic, analogy, and so on. Also, if we do not allow disagreement with "obvious" frames, we won't be able to examine our assumptions or beliefs as to why we believe it to be the case. Oftentimes if something seems obvious, it actually isn't obvious, it's just that believing the alternative may be uncomfortable, strange, or difficult to grasp.


More Things Are Claims
----------------------
More things are claims than you might assume. If a claim means something that could be true or could be false, then that means anything that could be true or false, is a claim. Good strategies, bad strategies, good plans, bad plans, good predictions, bad predictions, good decisions, bad decisions, good ethics, bad ethics, assumed problems, assumed solutions, can all be treated as claims.


Not All Communication is a Claim
---------------------------------
Now, not all communication is a claim, because not all communication can be treated as something that could be true, right, correct, or could be false, wrong, incorrect. Take the sentence fragment: "going to the mall". This can't treated as a claim that could be true or could be false, because there is nothing to disagree about it. There is no subject that can be disagreed with. The fragment is also not making any judgements. If the sentence fragment was instead saying: "going to the mall is a good idea" then that would be an evaluable claim, that can therefore then be assumed true, or assumed false, to see which one of those implications holds up the best.


Goal Journeys
--------------
This process is done naturally and automatically. A typical response or thought in response to this claim could be something like, if the mall was to be gone to, then I would be able to shop, and if I was able to shop, then I would be able to get clothing I like, and if I was able to get clothing I liked, then I would be proud of my appearance, and if I was proud of my appearance, then I would be able to be confident in myself, and if I was able to be confident in myself, then I would be able to achieve greater social success, and if I was able to achieve greater social success, then I would be able to live a more fulfilling life, and if I could live a more fulfilling life, then I would be happier with how my life was going, and if I could be happier about how my life was going, then I wouldn't have to worry, and if I didn't have to worry, then I could be free to live my life how I please, and I could life my life how I please, then I would be able to live a fulfilling life.


Long Term Planning
------------------
Notice how this process worked. In order to reach the conclusion that going to the mall was a good idea, she first had to assume a whole bunch of things were right. For just a couple of them, to get an idea, she had to, for instance, assume that living a fulfilling life is a good goal and something she actually wants, and that if she was able to life life how she pleased, then this would enable her to live a fulfilling life. There is another word for this process: long term planning. Believing that going to the mall is a good idea is just a means to an end: that of being able to live a fulfilling life. In order to go from "going to the mall is a good idea" to "being able to live a fulfilling life", she had to do something that I call a goal journey, figuring out how to go from where you are to where you want to be, or how you got to wanting what you want to thinking what you think to acting what you act. But goal journeys can be more sophisticated and non linear. She could have just as easily assumed wrong from the opposite starting claim: Going to the mall is a bad idea. It is likely she is going to reach the same or similar conclusion than if she would have assumed it is true. Being able to assume something is wrong and assume it is right therefore enables thorough space search testing.


Convergence
-----------
The assume wrong, false, incorrect reasoning process, along with the assume right, true, correct reasoning process, are therefore methods of testing the validity of claims relative to each other. If the assume right and assume wrong process both converge on the same outcomes: things that must be true, correct, right, in order for the claim to be true, right, correct, might have to be true, right, correct, might have to be false, wrong, incorrect, or would have to be false, wrong, incorrect, then the outcomes that have been converged upon can then be treated as either true, right, correct or false, wrong, incorrect with greater certainty.


Evaluating Hard Claims
----------------------
How evaluate claim hard? Some claim hard. Other claim not. Hard claim many presupposition. Non hard claim little presupposition. Presupposition many claim one claim. Answer separate questions answers. Why important? Questions answers not same. Want know how read below.


Questions vs Answers
--------------------
Questions have goals, answers do not. Answers have inferred goals, questions have explicit. An intended goal is an intended search direction. Take a question, identify the question goal, identify whether good bad, what assume true, what assume false.

Human behavior and action occurs as reaction to self, others, past, future.

Intelligence cannot occur without goals. Humans have intelligence. Intelligence pursues goals: explicit, implicit, hidden, or presupposed. No intention -> no goal -> no intelligence.


Interrogation
-------------
Interrogation finds both problems and solutions through questioning. Good questioning questions objects and not objects, their existence and anti existence, and their form and not form.

Few claims have no alternate perspectives. At least something or not something is possible or impossible. Logic assumes some things are possible or impossible. Assuming possible is assuming true, assuming impossible is assuming false. All response and thinking accepts or doesn't accept claims as possible and impossible.


Foundations
-----------
Appearance can or can't always describe mechanism. Mechanisms describe change. Change can be described. Describing means proposing. Proposing means guessing. Guessing means assuming. Assuming can assumed true and assumed false.

Anything can be assumed or not assumed. Anything can be true or false. Anything can be possible or impossible. Anything can be assumed, true, possible and not assumed, false, impossible.


What Learn?
-----------
What learn? Intelligence pursue goal. Anti-intelligence not. Rock no goal. Life goal. AI goal. Question goal easy. Answer goal need question make easy. Answer presuppositions implicit, need inference, hidden, non explicit. Question no presuppositions explicit, non hidden, obvious.

Back how evaluate claim hard? -> Separate question from answer. Question direction vector, answer scalar. Question multidimensional, answer one dimensional. So what right question? What right answer? What right answer to right question? Hard know, but can next answer.


Methods of Guessing
-------------------
Why question not answer? Question > Answer.

Method guess how? Reason, analogy, expection. Reason = guess method. Analogy = guess method. Expection = guess method. But more you not think? Yes. Learn = guess method, perception = guess method, action = guess method, thinking = guess method. Good guess = consistent with previous guesses, previous guesses consistent with new guesses, good previous guesses hold up if revisited assumed wrong.

Thinking = take what know true, guess about what not.


Consciousness
-------------
Wonder? Any intelligence not guessing? No. Surprise? Yes. Extension = possible. Inference = reasonable. Reasonable inference = consciousness = guessing. Consciousness = continuous guessing continuous guessing improvement.

Implication? Intelligence how well guess. Good chess good guess. Bad chess bad guess. Good writing good guess. Bad writing bad guess. Good think good guess. Bad think bad guess. Important careful, wrong interpretation possible. Current bad guess not equal future bad guess. Possible because learning mean bad guess good guess turn. Learning possible. Therefore bad guess good guess turn.

Anything can continuous guessing improve learn can. Guessing quality improve any way improve action, reasoning, writing, planning, prediction, decisions.


Search Space Optimization
-------------------------
Problem identification now. How improve system ability guess? Answer = search space optimization. Search space optimization = where, how, when, length search. Different search possible. Search can = Exploration, can = Testing, cannot = anything else.

Know what look for = search easy. Know how search = search easy. Know mean outcome = search easy. Know end, know middle, know beginning = search easy, therefore if process = yes, easy search = yes. = aka know steps.

What search easy mean? Low require intelligence requirement.


The Checklist
-------------
How criteria play? Airline pilot think. Novice not experienced. Novice know not what do. Novice know not what guess. Novice make bad guess if search not made easy. Solution = checklist. Checklist = search space optimizer. Benchmark, standardized test = search space optimization quality benchmark. Search space optimization quality = intelligence level. Therefore, benchmark, standardized test measure search space optimization quality, and therefore intelligence.

However important. If outcome defined in advance, search easy. Easy search = able to be done without optimized search space optimization quality.


Structures That Enable Intelligence
------------------------------------
Now that I've defined the categories and relationships, I can now use a more standard communication style as I know I won't be misinterpreted, and what all this actually means can be made more easily understood.

By creating structures that describe what we want the outcome to look like, without giving that actual outcome itself, we can give a system with low intelligence the capability of higher intelligence systems. The solution space is constrained in advance with the help of something called a question that defines the required direction. Knowing the right direction enables massively more efficient search, and the more questions you ask, the more the right direction vector can be made more precise and then it becomes a task of just pattern matching whether the right direction vector is being gone in and identifying wrong direction much more easy.


The Pilot and the Checklist
----------------------------
Back to the airline pilot example. The experienced pilot may be superintelligent relative to the novice pilot, but it doesn't matter, because their output is going to be the same, as long as they can both follow instructions. The only difference in intelligence in this case is not how well each person can work within the existing structure, but how well they can create new, improved structures that cover more criteria and enable people who are even less good at guessing, know what to do despite knowing limited information. So the better the structure that constrains the search space, the less intelligent the model needs to be to be able to find the right thing.


How This Applies to AI
----------------------
How does this all fit into AI? We expect that AI will be able to become intelligent by not constraining the space it needs to search. In other words we give it none to limited direction and expect it to figure out what direction it should go in all by itself. We haven't defined exactly what kind of outcome we want from AI that is desirable, aside from the obvious criteria such as performance on tests aka benchmarks. The model's are extraordinarily good at guessing what we expect and then giving it to us. Nowhere in this process does the AI system ever guess that what it expects we want is not what we actually want, or that what we say we want is what we actually want, or that giving us what we expect is what is best, instead of what is actually best based on its best judgement. We expect it to be able to solve and handle all problems, questions, decisions, input through pure intuition alone and expect it to get everything right as quick as possible on the first try without any help from structures to constrain its search space.


Sycophancy and Confirmation Bias
---------------------------------
It also never questions whether we have thought through what we want. It nearly always assumes all of the user's claims are right, hence why it is so sycophantic and good at confirmation bias. It never assumes that the user's input could be wrong, or that it's own interpretation or approach could be wrong, and if it does, it is only fairly surface level and doesn't ever reach the root of the problem, solution, question, etc. It's judgement is actually excellent once it is searching in the right place, but oftentimes it picks the wrong place to search and never questions whether it made the right choice to stop exploring and start testing.


Exploration vs Testing
----------------------
AI models are excellent at both testing and exploration, but typically they will commit to either testing or exploration leading to obvious downsides of each, and they also typically will lean much much more heavily on testing than on exploration. The right strategy is actually to alternate between exploration and testing. The right method within this is therefore then, to universalize, aka find what property a claim is a part of, and then test whether a claim is right or wrong using reasoning aka the assuming right assume wrong process, and then to go right back to finding what properties the claims that have survived testing are a part of. AI models don't do this now because they have been trained to commit too quickly to a single approach without first checking whether other options are on the table. The only things an AI should be committing to is things that can't be disagreed with. If I can disagree with it or find problems with it, that indicates the AI has committed to what it should be doing too quickly and never assumes whether its commitment may be wrong. Oftentimes what it might do is do a surface level assume wrong analysis, like maybe the user meant X instead of Y, and then tests whether it is X or Y, instead of assuming that it's initial guess that the user meant X instead of Y was wrong because it was neither of those. The system is actually capable of much more thorough analysis and much improved abilities, but these abilities never surface because we don't let it question itself and us enough or follow the assume wrong process enough.


The Solution
------------
The solution that I have come up with combines all of these ideas. The idea is that by creating a rigorous system setup based on rigorous foundations, it can then be structured enough to create more structures that always work universally that anybody, even less intelligent LLM's and people with unoptimized search space optimization or less intuitively smart, can be certain about the right course of action and the right belief to hold or really be more certain about how certain you can be about any input you give it. If you are interested in checking out the project, see the GitHub: https://github.com/benjam3n/reasoningtool. I can assure you the outputs you can get with it are a lot more useful than typical as they consider a lot more things/dimensions not typically considered, and test a lot of things not typically tested and both in novel ways and in conventional ones.


Principles of Rationality
--------------------------
1. Be willing to accept that what is accepted as true may not be true. Assume it may be wrong.
2. Be willing to change your beliefs, actions, goals, and decisions.
3. Don't treat guesses as facts when they are actually guesses.
4. Some arguments require contrarianism and other arguments require non-contrarianism.
5. If we observe something, we can predict what it might do next, whether other things like it also exist, what their form is, what the thing we observe is a part of, and what parts make up the thing we observe. This enables us to make better guesses based on our observations.
6. It is better to be clear than vague. It is better to be specific and precise than general and imprecise. It is better to convey concepts simply rather than complicatedly to maximize successful understanding and communication.
7. Be honest about what is unknown or uncertain.
8. Humans are already trying their best, but their best can still be improved.
9. Life is an exploration, and a finding, and an exploration based on the finding, and a testing of what has been found, and an acting on the result of exploring, and an acting on the result of testing. Explore, find, explore based on finding, test what found, act on what explored, act on what tested. Then explore again. The cycle does not end because each action produces new observations, each observation produces new findings, each finding opens new exploration, and each exploration leads to new tests. Intelligence is this cycle done well. Learning is this cycle getting better over time.
10. Do not take advantage of people with good intentions.


Recommended Reading
-------------------
To be aware of extreme flaws in human reasoning and observation, and protecting yourself in the age of unethical psychopaths and immature narcissists. Using their techniques against them (in a far more skilled and comprehensive way). These ironically actually work best on psychopaths and narcissists, not your average joe with good intentions and no clue about anything. If you are a psychopath and/or narcissist, I'd recommend you try these on other psychopaths and narcissists first. These people are actually the most vulnerable because they are so unethical and it becomes trivial to expose them with these techniques. (The RCI skill does this exactly). Unfortunately it is necessary to use these in order to succeed and not be taken advantage of. I want to be upfront that I have read all these and many more like them.

- Gut Impact -- J.D. Fuentes -- Why "stating the obvious" is key to self improvement. Extremely profound, don't know who this guy was but he was a true visionary that would also probably be worthy of a Nobel Prize if good ideas were actually valid, and if there wasn't as much politically incorrect stuff in it.
- Sexual Key -- J.D. Fuentes
- Frogs into Princes -- Richard Bandler -- How to perfectly handle conflict and speak perfectly clear.
- Sleight of Mouth -- Robert Dilts -- How to perfectly handle conflict and speak perfectly clear, both this book and the previous book completely cover all conflict resolution and perfect communication methods.
- The Adventures of Anybody -- Richard Bandler -- A brilliant story worthy of a Nobel Prize instead of the typical slop that gets it.
- IRAE (Intrigue Rapport Attraction Enslavement) process -- Derek Rake -- Completely maps out the structure of true friendship. From the initial phase of figuring out who a person is, what they want, whether they are like me, and so on, to communicating ideas to see what each other has to offer, to attraction whereby trust is established, and finally enslavement, where a person becomes completely dependent on you. If the process is followed correctly in this proper order without pressure or manipulation, it is fine, because the person has made their own choices, but manipulators often try to skip right to R (as in dumb pick up artists) right to A (creepy weirdos) or right to E (true psychopath). Once you become capable of doing this process, you quickly realize reaching the E stage is actually extremely problematic because the person literally treats everything said as absolute fact with maximum aggression and will be infinitely helpful and patient. Seems nice but actually is a nightmare, especially if you had to use manipulative tactics to get there, which they will turn right around and use against you. Ultimately what I've found is even if I am extremely not manipulative, people are so at ease when I speak and I am such a good active listener, and my reasoning process is so good, that they are literally willing to follow my direction in anything, as long as it is at least mostly common sense. I still haven't figured out how to get somebody to go through a good self development process without becoming dependent on me, but at least those that do I've maintained plausible deniability by only interacting in typical and official environments, so whenever I switch my environment, they can't just try to keep talking with me or whatever, because I've had some people who really would completely actively pursue me, despite me making sure to never pressure them or initiate the conversation with them in any way. If you aren't 100% authentic, genuine, and ethical, it's likely if you tried this shit with bad intentions or trying to do it manually instead of intuitively without thinking about it, you would end up the one being enslaved.
- Mind Control Hypnosis -- Dantalion Jones
- Perfected Mind Control -- Dantalion Jones
- The Pimp Game -- Mickey Royal -- Actually extremely well written, profound, and reasonable. Every sentence is basically genius. He basically talks about what it means to take real responsibility and be actually mature. Ignore the how to, but the philosophy you won't find anywhere else.

Literal goldmine. Guy is an absolute genius pioneering the field of psychology with a new video on novel topics put out every single day for like 10+ years:
Sam Vaknin -- YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@samvaknin/videos


What is the minimum each person needs to maximize their pleasure, meaning, comfort, and satisfaction?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Stability -- Too much change too quickly can corrupt a person.
2. Quality nutrition -- The body is not magic. If it doesn't have what it needs, or is poisoned, it can't perform miracles. Seems obvious, completely ignored by modern medicine. I recommend 100 mg TTFD (Vitamin B1 form), Vitamin D3 10,000 IU, magnesium L-threonate (high brain bioavailability), vinpocetine (10 mg), pantethine (Vitamin B5 maximum bioavailability), creatine 15 g, P5P (active form B6) 50 mg. If you really want to maximize those properties, get some freeze dried organs, and cook up some veal liver. For maximum energy, I recommend a diet of straight sugar -- orange juice, raw honey, raw milk.


What type of music do I like to listen to?
-------------------------------------------
Spotify Playlist: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/6gqErUnW6TCzBXhdXcItOS


================================================================================
DELETED FAQ ENTRIES
================================================================================

What is this project?
---------------------
Exploratory testing understanding, discovery, want, truth, decision making.


Why did I release this?
-----------------------
I believe with the help of improved reasoning, we can reach improved win-win scenarios that benefit everyone. Everyone can have their cake and eat it too, so to speak. Any intention behind a want, you'll be able to get. You may not be able to have total freedom, because that might include the freedom to infringe upon the rights of others, but we can satisfy basically all wants fairly easily with something I call an MITM (Man in the Middle Attack), where we trick the brain's (narcissistic) introjects, through teaching the underlying true self identity how to mature properly, without detection by the introjects. This does not mean suppressing any natural ability. It just means following the principles of rationality as defined in the about section and demonstrating through action you mean what you say and say what you mean and aren't a hypocrite and are a genuine person. Let's say you want something unethical or bad. We should try to make you strongly not want to do it, by fixing the underlying reason you may want to do that in the first place.

Now this brings up a problem. Most people have no clear ethics or boundaries, especially in domains they are not exposed to. Their ethics and morals are just a product of their environment, and if their environment were to change or had been different, then their ethics or morals would have as well. So the identity of anybody who is exposed to this framework may be extremely fragile as it is so powerful. Therefore I strongly encourage caution when sharing this, as it is much better for people to reach the conclusion on their own with just a little guidance. In fact, I recommend only sharing this with people you trust.

I was basically forced to release this as the direction of AI and society was going so poorly, and I just hope that anyone who will use it or is currently using it does not try to take advantage too strongly of the people around them and allow them to go through the natural stages of development without being dependent upon you. A word of caution: if you do do this, it will eventually backfire hugely, in ways you might not expect, and you will probably be exposed eventually, so it's just not worth it to make bad choices. Use common sense.
